# SIMPLE BANK
#### Video Demo: <URL HERE>
#### Description:
Simple bank is, as the name already tells you, a simple bank application, which allows you to make some simple bank transactions or offers you different financial info.
When you open the application, it greets you and offers you different options. If you don't have an account yet, you can create a new user or you can select a user from the users that are already in the bank. You can view them by selecting one of the numbers that the application provides you. Each user has its own account. By selecting the right number, the selected user can deposit the money or withdraw the money from his account. If he is interested in binding the money for a specific time he can get some info about the interest he would get after the end of the saving time. The user can also get some information about the loan, more specific: how much money he would need to pay the bank each month for the repayment of the total loan.
File **project.py** contains all the code. Code starts with the import of the Enum object. I have created the Result class that helped me with returning data from Account object functions.
I made a list of bank users in which the bank operator can append new users. File **project.py** contains also a global variable *fixed rate* and a variable *user input* with a value 7, that I used in the while loop, when prompting a user for the input. I also made another global variable *current bank account number* with value 0. The mentioned variable I then used in the function *creating new user*, where the bank operator creates a new bank user. The global variable is used to create a user account number, which is incremented for every new user, so each user has a different account number.
In the *main function* the greeting is first printed, then I implement the while loop. First it prints all the possibilities the user has in a simple bank and then it prompts the user for entering a certain number to select a certain option (what he would like to do). We then have if-else statements to check the user input and based on the number the user enters, the implemented function calls corresponding code. The user can select the numbers from 1 to 7, if he enters a different number or a string, he gets a message that the number is not valid or that he must enter a number. When the user enters the number 7, the while loop breaks and the program exits.
In **project.py** I created 5 classes. A class User contains all users data, a class Account contains all data of users account, a class Credit, where are functions about loan and saving information, and two classes, which are more of a helper (class Result and class TransactionStatus (which is Enum) - that I used for handling statuses in code).
Class User has a constructor with first name, last name, address and account, that is linked with class Account.
Class Account has a constructor with account number and account balance. Under class Account I have implemented two functions, deposit and withdraw. They both return object results. If the user wants to withdraw more money than his balance is, the function returns the user account balance and the transaction status(Failed). If the amount the user wants to withdraw is less than his account balance, the function returns the account balance after the withdrawal and the transaction status(Succeeded).
Under class Credit I have implemented five functions for two different functionalities, about saving money and borrowing money. For both functionalities I wrote a separate code to get info about interest, they are different for loan and for saving money. For saving money I wrote another function in which I loop through a range of months (the user input for how many months he would like to bind money) and then I calculate the interest the user would receive at the end of the binding period. The function then returns the interest to a function that handles all saving information and is implemented in line 216. The current function also prints out the information to the user. For information about loans I wrote, besides the function *get loan interest*, two more functions under class Credit. One calculates the monthly repayment, and returns the value to the function that handles loan information (*handle loan info*, that also prints out the monthly payment the user would have to pay the bank to repay the loan), while the other function loops through the period of months (input of a user) and prints out for each month how much more the user has to pay to repay the loan.
Because there are a lot of the same prints for the user in the *main function*, I wrote several helper functions that hold those prints and I call these functions in the *main function*, so the code is more readable and the *main function* is shorter.
File **requirements.txt** contains all project references.
I wrote unitests for all the main classes. They are in a file **test_project.py**.

